---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am an interdisciplinary computational biologist with over a decade of experience bridging computer science and life sciences. My doctoral training in computer science focused on developing machine learning algorithms for biomedical applications, including clinical data integration and medical diagnostics. Since joining Houston Methodist Research Institute as a postdoctoral fellow, I have applied and expanded my expertise in deep learning and molecular biology, collaborating closely with clinicians and experimental scientists to uncover meaningful biological insights.

My academic research has yielded several high-impact contributions in inferring cell state transition, revealing RNA turnover strategy, and elucidating mechanisms underlying cardiovascular diseases. Notably, I developed cellDancer (Nature Biotechnology), the first deep-learning framework to infer gene-specific RNA velocity at single-cell resolution, enabling precise modeling of cell-state transitions, and it is the only method that has quantitatively validated its consistency with experimentally measured data. Leveraging this framework, I further investigated the cell dynamics of smooth muscle cells in aortic aneurysms (Circulation). Moreover, as a co-first author (Nature Metabolism), I led computational work to demonstrate how depleting carnitine acetyltransferase (CRAT) in cardiomyocytes mechanistically contributes to heart failure, pinpointing CRAT as a potential therapeutic target. In another co-first author work (Circulation Research), my collaborators and I discovered a novel mechanism by which the macrophage Extracellular Signal-Regulated Kinase 5–NFE2-Related Factor 2 (ERK5–NRF2) axis drives a unique senescence-associated secretory phenotype/stemness phenotype, thereby engendering atherogenesis. Collectively, these achievements highlight my commitment to advancing both computational methodology and translational disease research.

Beyond my research, I have served in editorial and community roles, such as reviewing manuscripts for Nature Communications, IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, and PLOS Computational Biology, and working as a Program Committee member for conferences such as the International Workshop on Data Mining in Bioinformatics. These activities reflect my dedication to scientific dissemination. Moving forward, I aim to harness advanced computational approaches—particularly in the areas of RNA therapeutics, precision medicine, and drug discovery—to deepen our understanding of molecular biology and accelerate the translation of these insights into novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. Building on my strong track record of impactful research, I look forward to broadening the scope of these investigations and contributing to the next generation of clinically relevant breakthroughs.
